PAUL LEWIS: So I've
been doing a lot of what
I like to think of
as boiler plate code
because I've been
working on the site
and I've been building custom
controls for the video player.
And-- so firstly, it's
awesome that you can totally
get-- like there's loads of
events that fire off a media
element, whether
it's seeking, it's
seeked, whether it's ended,
whether it's playing.
And all these things
are really, really handy
when you're making custom
controls because you
want to handle that.
I just wanted-- because I've
spent some time doing it,
I just wanted to kind
of show you very briefly
around some of the code.
I mean, you can find
it all on GitHub.
Just check the link
in the description
below if you want
to actually, like,
spend ages looking
over the source code.
But I will explain,
broadly speaking,
how I've decided to divide
and conquer the code for this.
Let's have a look at
what's on my screen.
So the first thing
to note is that there
is-- there are two
things-- there's actually--
there's two classes
that are interesting.
There we go.
That's how I should say it.
There's the video player
and the video controls.
The video player
is what is going
to decide whether
the video is playing
or whether it's actually paused.
It actually controls
the shaka-player
and it controls the
video element itself.
That's the-- it's kind
of the wrapper around--
why is it a wrapper around
a wrapper around a video?
Because it's a wrapper
around shaka around a video.
This feels like it's
going to quickly descend
into some kind of
tongue twister.
It's a wrapper around
shaka around video.
Yes, I got it.
Yes.
Anyway, that's not
what you came for.
Let's talk about the code bits.
So in the constructor for
one of these video players,
you can see I pull a lot of
stuff from the video element
because I actually put a video
element in the page using
dos-js templates.
So I say look, there's
a video element-- doo.
And I pop in, in the
HTML, all the data
that I think I'm going to need.
And the reason I do
that is because I
think that server side rendering
makes a lot of sense here.
Even though this is
all JavaScript based,
I don't want to make a
request off for the JSON
and then bring it
back here and--
I can encode this all inside
the DOM if I absolutely need to.
And it's working just fine.
So I pick up all the things
that I need from the DOM like
the title of the video,
the link to the manifest--
as in where do I get the
manifest for this particular
video--
post frames, all
that kind of stuff.
And I keep a bunch of
things around that I need
to-- just for housekeeping.
This here-- with
all these binds,
you'll recognize if you
have watched a supercharged.
I'll explain it now
just very, very briefly.
The thing-- these things
like on keydown, onclick.
They are class
methods but that's
sugar over a prototype
method in ES5 terminology.
And so if I call--
if I had an event
listener that's like--
that's like the click event
handler, say, on a button
and I say this dot
onclick, by default,
the onclick will be bound
to the button, for example.
So if I say this dot
something or other,
it will refer to the button.
Typically, what I actually
want it to refer to
is my instance of my class.
The other thing--
the other reason
I do it like this and take a
copy of it off the prototype
and onto the instance,
is just simply
so that I can do--
add event listeners
and remove event listeners and
I can still refer to it by name.
So this dot onclick
always refers, by name,
to the instance copy.
So I do it for two reasons.
It looks slightly odd,
and it is slightly odd.
And its just one
of those things.
I would like it if we had
a different way to do this,
but we don't at the moment.
So anyway.
So I set them all
up at the start.
OK.
Here's actually-- yeah,
the event listeners
are things like keydown,
click, play, pause, back 30,
forward 30.
So these are custom,
specific to my app.
These aren't your
standard issue events.
These come from
the video controls.
So I'll have to show
you that in a moment.
But there are some
specific ones that I do,
which go in the other direction.
So when we play, we pause,
the video has ended,
or the duration changes, I
actually notify the controls.
So there's a two-- there is
some coupling going on here.
I either call into
the video controls
and give the video
controls a bit
of updated state
about the videos
so that controls can be updated
and reflect what's going on.
And the video controls will
dispatch events back out.
So the video player--
the video controls
are inside something.
So I can basically
do event handling.
And so I call in,
but I do events out.
I think, actually, when
you do V-DOM stuff,
they often say that you want
to do props down and events up.
And it's not a
dissimilar thing here.
I'm sort of calling in
and events bubble back up.
And it seems to work just great.
So these are the custom
events, essentially,
that I get from the controls.
Then there's a few
bits and pieces
about whether we've
gone full screen.
I was surprised
to discover things
like full screen still require
WebKit prefixing on the way
through.
Interesting.
I thought most of the WebKit
stuff had disappeared.
In fact, I thought
all the vendor
prefix stuff had
mostly disappeared.
But there are a few
that are hanging around.
There are a couple of
other bits and pieces
like whether we support the
newer orientation locks--
which I have a quick
test for, which
is like if orientation in a
string is in window.screen.
These are convenience
things here-- whether we
support these various things.
I will show you
the media session
API at some other point.
Not in this one because it's
worth seeing all by itself.
It's very exciting.
So we got all this going on.
As I say, most of this
is boilerplate-like.
For example, if you go back 30,
all we do is we grab the video
and we just say current
time, take off 30 seconds,
and then update
the video controls.
So as I say, loads
of boilerplate.
On the video controls
side, however, it's
again actually not
dissimilar in terms
of a lot of boilerplate about,
sort of, click handlers and so
on.
There's actually one global
click handler which I--
so I delegate control of
the click handling out
to the video controls.
Let me show you that.
Where's the onclick
when you need it?
La, la, la.
Come on, Paul.
I look on the button itself--
oh, I look on whatever
was actually clicked.
And if it's got a
type in its data set,
so if it's got data-type
as an attribute,
I fire a custom
event with that name,
which is why in the video
player we get things like--
la, la, la-- we get, like,
back 30 and forward 30.
Because if we were to
look in the player--
[HUMMING] I hope
you all sing when
you're doing your
look-around-you codes
because I definitely do.
Makes me a joy to
work alongside.
[HUMMING]
Anyway, that's not
what you came here for.
Now we see-- da, da,
da-- there we are.
So like data type equals
toggle volume or data
type equals toggle Chromecast.
I've yet to build
that bit, mostly.
So that data type
is what's used to--
as the event name
and we just fire that
from the video controls, pick
it up in the video player,
and then do the
appropriate thing.
It will hopefully
all make sense.
So there you go.
That is a quick look
around the video controls,
the video player.
That's kind of where I've been
roughly spending nearly all
of my time.
I expected a lot of boilerplate,
I got a lot of boilerplate.
But on the upside--
I mean, let me show you now.
Let me show you what we've got.
This is the video
player as it is.
And-- oh, would
you look at that.
It's me and Surma, and a
few other people besides.
We've got the pause,
play controls.
We can skip forward 30--
there's the buffering--
go back 30 as well.
La, la, la.
We can also drag along like
that, which will also work.
There's Rob Dodson
looking very Rob Dodson.
Yeah.
Full screen-- we
can go full screen.
Boom.
Look at that.
That's great.
So that all works.
All these things you
can do and more besides.
I've got some code
that will switch
on things like the
Chromecast button
if there's a Chromecast
on the network.
All that.
You can find all that
in the source code.
Now, we'll spend a bit more
time talking about that kind
of stuff in a future entry.
But for now, I will wish
you a very good day,
and thank you very
much for watching.
Hey, folks, thanks for watching.
Don't forget that there is
more content that you can
find, kind of, over here-ish.
And if you want to subscribe
there's probably a button,
I don't know, maybe there.
Maybe somewhere around there.
Click that if you've
not done that.
Brilliant.